# Obi blocks taxonomy

`$Id$`

A block is meant here as a container in Obi.

<div id="toc">Table of Contents</div>

## Hierarchy of blocks

### Strip block, or section strip

The top level container.

  * A text label
  * An image
  * A heading (see headings below)

A strip block can contain one or more container blocks and audio blocks.
Although a section contains subsection, a section strip is shallow and
contains no other strips.

### Audio block, or phrase

An audio block contains some audio. A vanilla audio block is just a phrase
used for local navigation in the book. It can have properties described
below. There are hower subclasses of such blocks.

#### Heading block

A heading block is used as the audio label for a navpoint in the navlist.
A section strip can have zero or one heading block (but a heading block can
contain several phrases, see below.)

#### Page block

Page blocks correspond to the [`<pageTarget>` element in the
navlist](http://www.daisy.org/z3986/2005/z3986-2005.html#NCXElem). The audio
in the block is the audio label for the page. There are three kinds of page
blocks:

* Front page: for roman-numeral pages at the beginning of the book.

* Normal page: regular page within the book, identified by an arabic
numeral.

* Special page: all other kinds of pages. Presumably Obi will keep them as
arabic numerals.

All pages have a positive integer number; there cannot be two pages of the
same kind with the same number. Do we have restrictions about front pages
appearing only before normal and special pages?

#### Silence block

A silence block is used for phrase detection (until we implement a better
algorithm that can do it on its own.) Since silence blocks normally do not
contain any useful audio, they are considered as unused, but should be shown
differently.

#### Custom block

Users should be able to define their own kinds of blocks, at least for
visualization purposes.

#### Container block, or phrases

The container block is used for grouping one or more blocks sharing the same
property (e.g. a list of heading blocks) in order to consider them as a
single unit, even though they can contain more phrases. Containers are useful
for headings spanning multiple phrases, or for escapable sections.

## Additional properties

### Used and unused blocks

Used blocks are blocks that are exported to the final project. Unused blocks
are used to keep data during production without exporting it. Unused blocks
are also not played back during continuous play of the book (continuous play
being similar to playback of the final book in a DAISY player.)

This impacts the behavior of the other blocks in the following way:

* __heading block__: when a section has unused heading blocks, can new
heading blocks be added?

* __page block__: when there are unused page blocks, should they be
considered during automatic renumbering or not?

* __silence block__: a silence block is unaffected.

A simple solution is to only allow to mark audio blocks as unused in the
following cases:

1. it is a vanilla audio block. All other kinds of blocks must first lose
their properties before being made unused.

2. the whole section is marked as unused.

### Empty blocks

An empty block has no audio data. Empty blocks are created when audio could
not be read (so that the structure is not lost if the data can be retrieved,
or replaced) or when a skeleton structure is imported (e.g. empty page,
heading, etc.) Obi must support adding of audio to empty blocks rather than
creating new blocks.

### Annotated blocks

#### Producer marks

These are special kinds of annotations, whose content is generated
automatically (e.g. during recording). An empty block could be seen as a
special kind of annotation ("audio missing.") We could let users add new
annotations.

#### Custom annotations

Unconstrained text data that can be attached to any block for
production-time viewing.

### Skippable blocks

Some blocks are skippable by default, some others can be marked as such.

### Escapable blocks

## Resources

## Visualization


