# Mockup of Obi 1.0 manual

`$Id$`

<div id="toc">Table of contents</div>

The idea is that we document features first, then implement them. This way
we can better test if they behave as planned and we don't have to document
them later. This file can be the basis for the proper help page (with
screenshots, with more end-user hand-holding) with the objective of reusing
as much of it as possible.

## What is Obi?

## The work area

The work area shows the whole project at once and allows the user to focus
on specific parts while editing, recording and testing playback of a
project.

Sketch of the work area:

<pre>
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                         |                                                |
|  TOC view               |  Strip view                                    |
|                         |                                                |
|  * My book              |  +---------------------------------------------|
|    * First section      |  |                                             |
|    * Second section     |  |  My book                                    |
|      * First chapter    |  |                                             |
|      * Second chapter   |  |  +------------------------------------------|
|    * Third section      |  |  |            |           |             |   |
|                         |  |  |  Audio     |  Audio    |  Audio      |  A|
|                         |  |  |            |           |             |   |
|-------------------------|  |  +------------------------------------------|
|                         |  |                                             |
|  Metadata               |  +---------------------------------------------|
|                         |                                                |
|  Title: My title        |  +---------------------------------------------|
|  Author: So and so      |  |                                             |
|                         |  |  First section                              |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                          |
|  Transport bar                                                           |
|                                                                          |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
</pre>

### Metadata view

The metadata view can be shown under the TOC view or instead of the strips
view. Maybe a condensed version if a sidebar?

### The table of contents view

Hierarchy of the project. Synchronized with the Strip view. (This could be
an option.)

### Strips view

Shows strips and blocks.

#### Strips

Strips are containers for blocks and map one-to-one with sections. They are
composed of:

* The name of the section (same as shown in the TOC view, changing one
changes the other.)

* The thumbnail of the section image (can be shown full-size in a modal
window, and/or in the sidebar Ã  la iTunes?)

* The audio blocks, see below.

Unused strips are kept in the project but 

Strips may be indented/collapsed?

#### Blocks

Audio blocks are the phrases of the book.  Several kinds of audio blocks
(strictly speaking we may want to distinguish between class and property;
classes are mutually exclusive whereas properties apply to any class):

* Plain audio block: this is a regular phrase in the book.

* Empty audio block: has no audio; is a placeholder but can be marked as
heading or page.

* Page block: has a page number.

* Heading: is the heading for its section. If a section has no explicit
heading, the first plain block is the default.

* Footnote/reference: need to figure out these.

* Skippable: can be skipped depending on the player setting.

* Escapable: can be escaped during playback.

* Unused: kept at production time but normally skipped and not exported.

* Block group: several consecutive blocks of the same class that share the
same properties so can be treated as a single block for this purpose; for
instance, there can be only one header block for a section but this block
can be a group block. Sneaky!

### Transport bar

Used for recording and QA playback. Buttons are overloaded for recording;
for instance, the next phrase button introduces a new phrase. Whether this is
sufficient remains to be seen. An idea would be to modify the toolbar when
recording.

### VU meter

Has its own window, or is part of the transport bar (text/small version.)

## Editing metadata

## Editing structure

## Editing audio

## Audio playback and recording

### Playback

### Recording

## Saving and exporting

### XUK/.obi format

### Cleaning up

### Exporting to DAISY 3

### Using the DAISY Pipeline for import/export

## User profile and preferences
