# Plan for Obi - August to December 2007

`$Id$`

<div id="toc">Table of contents</div>

This is a tentative plan that will change after the Copenhagen meeting. The
current Obi team is Julien (~0.8 FTE), Avneesh (1 FTE), and Marisa (~0.2 FTE)
*i.e.* about 2 FTE. See [the Obi tasklist](tasklist.html) for a description of
most of the items listed here. The required features list is mostly covered,
although some features (including a few marked as "essential") are moved to
"iffy" status, *i.e.* probably won't be implemented by version 1.0.


## August

Version 0.9 is the first version that includes the new toolkit, *i.e.* version
1.0 of the SDK. Version 0.9 can be used for testing late August/early
September.

* Fix remaining audio issues from toolkit migration <span class="who">Avneesh
with help from Ole for debugging the SDK</span> along with cleaning up audio
player/recorder.

* Some regression testing? <span class="who">Marisa taking over from
Laust</span> We need to identify things not working anymore since the SDK
upgrade, write some tests to ensure that our fixes are permanent, and mark
the issues as fix (immediatly) or redesign (later) For instance, asset
related issues should be fixed, command related bugs could wait for
redesign.

* Fix issues marked as fix (all) and release 0.9 <span
class="who">Julien</span>

## September

Version 0.10 will be the main development version of Obi between September
and December. It will include a redesign of front end as well as back end
elements. We will need better tester support and try to have a weekly
release schedule.

* Redesign of the audio backend and playback. <span class="who">Avneesh</span>

* New blocks design: remove annotation blocks; show waveform in blocks;
have more types of blocks (pages, headings, etc. need a complete
taxonomy from the spec plus a container block for consecutive blocks sharing
the same properties.) Review section strip display (e.g. use entire width
available; use indenting?) <span class="who">Julien</span>

* New project panel design: add an additional panel for metadata, probably
one for recording, and possibly one for source view. Panels can be open in
different, but not modal windows? In this manner, undo/redo works for all
operations. Include views synchronization (with preference.)

* Review command manager, use new one from SDK or redo our own <span
class="who">Julien, Marisa</span>

* Review cleanup, import (structure) and export (Z) <span class="who">Marisa
with Avneesh/Ole</span>

* Usability issue: fix insert/append issue for new elements and edit
operations for real.  <span class="who">all</span>

* Organize a coding workshop for November/December; <span
class="who">Dipendra</span> to inquire about India and <span
class="who">Julien</span> about Japan.

## October

* Waveform editing (mouse <span class="who">Julien</span> and keyboard <span
class="who">Avneesh</span>) in phrase blocks.

* Page numbering: support manual numbering, front/main/back numbers,
renumbering on demand. <span class="who">Julien</span>

* Search text <span class="who">Marisa</span> in annotations and headings

* Maintain a list of producer marks (such as TODO, FIXME, etc.) that can
easily be set while recording and found <span class="who">Avneesh</span>

* Recording modes <span class="who">Avneesh taking over from Laust</span>,
as well as recording improvements (to be specified; at least some simple
punch-in mechanism.)

* VU Meter improvements <span class="who">Avneesh</span>.

## November

By November we should have a good look and evaluate whether we're on track
for delivering with the desired feature set. Feature cuts may be necessary
at this time to make a more solid application; but we really need those:

* Configurable and colors and default profiles (high contrast), font/widget
size <span class="who">Julien and Avneesh</span>

* Skippable and escapable items <span class="who">Julien</span>

Then, if all goes well:

* Multiple selection <span class="who">Julien with Marisa</span>.

* Phrase detection: more testing, automatic detection? <span
class="who">Avneesh</span> 

* Better user preferences/profile (save undo/redo state with project, window
sizes and position, lastmark, etc.) <span class="who">Julien</span>

Otherwise:

* Cut what sucks <span class="who">all</span>

* Make the rest really not suck <span class="who">all</span>

## December

Version 1.0 should come out late December. We may still call the december
release a candidate release, and have testers and early adopters submit bug
reports to reach a real 1.0 version in the following weeks.

* Testing <span class="who">all</span>

* Improve installer <span class="who">Julien</span>

* Release <span class="who">Julien</span>

## Post-december bucket

### Desirable features and tasks

* Usability testing

* Developer documentation (not just autogenerated doc, but guidelines for
new developers)

* Inter-project copy and editing several projects

* Images in section heading: can add a thumbnail in the view.

* Links and footnotes

* Pauses

* Bookmarks

* Resources

* DAISY Pipeline interface and XUK/DTB transformers

* Audio counter

* Customizable views for the strip manager (e.g. pages, tables, sidebars)
and possibly custom navigation lists

* MP3 support: let the pipeline handle that. Although having MP3 import
would really be helpful (even though the MP3 would be converted back to
RIFF/WAV) as well as other formats supported by DAISY.

### Iffy features

* Studio lights

* Indenting and collapsing of strips: this is not in the feature list
although it would fit in the interface redesign. But this is not a priority.

* Non-contiguous strip content: mixing phrase and section children for a
section. Currently Obi supports only phrase children followed by section
children.

## Further comments

### Additional resources

The schedule is probably overly optimistic and additional resources are
necessary to meet it.

### F2F

F2F meetings have been very beneficial so far in Obi development and another
one should happen. I see two opportunities right now:

* A design meeting in September could be really useful, possibly in
conjunction with a Tobi design meeting, but it seems tricky to organize
although a couple days around the SMIL F2F in Amsterdam could work.

* A late November/early December coding workshop, to be held in India or
Japan for around two weeks (Marisa's involvment could be shorter.)
